Explain how to solve this problem in linear time: 
Given a sorted array and a number x, find the pair in array whose sum is closest to x

1. Initialize a variable diff as infinite (Diff is used to store the idfference between pair and x). 
We need to find minimum diff 
2. Initialize two index variable l and r in the iven sorted array ( one at l = 0 and r = n-1)
3. Loop while l < r 
a. in abs(arr[l] + arr[r] -sum) < diff then update sum and result. 
b. else if (arr[l] + arr[r] < sum) then l++ 
c. else r--

What does data before action mean? 

Come up with data types first before going about solving a problem. (OOP)

What are the componenets of a class? 

Field (data member)
Method (function member)

What is encapsulation? 

The fields an object/instance should only be read or written by methods of that instance class 

What's the diffference btween public and private methods in a class? 

public: visible anywhere 

private: visible only to methods of own types 

What is same-origin policy? When is it not enforced? 

Prvetns document or script load from one origin from getting or setting properties of a document from a different origin

work arounds: 
1. send cors headers that tell browser its ok
2. writes a proxy (php script) that makes request 
3. 3rd party proxy service 
4. JSONP 

what is JSONP?

Padded json. uses script tag hacks to grab data from server and tells the server in advance what funciton it wants to be called when the data comes back. Incorporates data into DOM using a server that supports JSONP. 

Explain the time complexity of Quicksort 

worst case O(n squared) when item is already sorted 
best and average case O(nlogN)
Quicksort is faster in practice than heap and merge sort 

Explain the partition method with quicksort 

It divides the gien array with elements smaller than the pivot on the left and larger elemtns on the right of it would have 2 pointers. One iterates through the array and the number at that pointer gets compared to the pv\ivot (last element of array). If the elemnt is smaller, you switch that element with the other point (starts at 0) and increase that pointer by one. At the ned, switch the pivot and the smaller pointer. 

What is partial funciton application? 

Xreating a new funciton by fixing some parametrs of the existing one 

Different from currying which wraps functions over functions in order to trun a funciton over functions in order to turn tahtwoould normally accept muiltiple arguments, into one that accepts1 argument mutiple times over. 

What is the differene bttween clas inheritence and class composition? 

Class inheritence is is-a. a cat is a mammel so you would inherate 

Class composition is has-a. a car has a steering wheel and a seat. Would inheret. The wheel would just be a feild. 

What is method overriding? 

When an object inherits a method  but it also has the method defined as part of its class. The inherited method is overidden by the current method. 

What is polymorphism? 

Calliin gthe method of an object depends on the object you're calling it from 

if x and y are instance of two different classes, foo() would do two different things

What are class fields  and class methods? 

Methods and fields that are accessible via the class, not the instance. Essentially a glabal variable funciton that are availible via the class

How do static and dynamic languages treat interfacs differently? 

Dynamics: not formalized. Can call method 

Static: must explicitly define and interface and specify what classes use interface